# Questions About Data Science #

Question1 - You work at an e-commerce company that sells three goods: widgets, doodads, and fizzbangs. The head of advertising asks you which they should feature in their new advertising campaign. You have data on individual visitors' sessions (activity on a website, pageviews, and purchases), as well as whether or not those users converted from an advertisement for that session. You also have the cost and price information for the goods.
Answer - My first guess is to create 6 bins for customer-sessions.  3 bins will include the purchases for non-converted customers sessions and their purchases of the three goods.  The other 3 bins include the converted customer-sessions and their purchases of the goods.  By tallying purchase results over these 6 bins we should see if any of the goods respond better to advertisement.  We should see the purchase profitability of a good in the converted bin be much higher than the corresponding non-converted bin.

Question2 - You work at a web design company that offers to build websites for clients. Signups have slowed, and you are tasked with finding out why. The onboarding funnel has three steps: email and password signup, plan choice, and payment. On a user level you have information on what steps they have completed as well as timestamps for all of those events for the past 3 years. You also have information on marketing spend on a weekly level.
Answer -  In the following, I assume that the onboarding funnel is completed in one week. We can pull together all people who have failed to complete the onboarding funnel by the week of their last completed step along with the people who completed that week.  For each of these weeks, we can then correlate the marketing spend.  We might just see that onboarding failures increase when marketing spend is lower than average.  There is also the possiblity that the level of marketing spend doesn't matter.  Perhaps the onboarding issues originate in issues with the nature of the onboarding funnel itself.

Question 3 -You work at a hotel website and currently the website ranks search results by price. For simplicity's sake, let's say it's a website for one city with 100 hotels. You are tasked with proposing a better ranking system. You have session information, price information for the hotels, and whether each hotel is currently available.
Answer - It was difficult to propose how to look at the data without an actual counterfactual method of ranking also being used.  I assume that the real issue is to start an A/B testing of the website using an alternative ranking method.  After a period of time we should see evidence of increased probability of booking a hotel if the new ranking system works better.  One possibility is to rank by availability and some measure of profitability to our website of booking that hotel.

Question 4 - You work at a social network, and the management is worried about churn (users stopping using the product). You are tasked with finding out if their churn is atypical. You have three years of data for users with an entry for every time they've logged in, including the timestamp and length of session.
Answer - We need to break up the three years into an appropriate level of aggregation.  For example, we might decide to aggregate quarterly.  We should get an overall mean level of churn by aggregating over the entire three year period and finding what percentage leave the service in those three years.  I'm assuming we started with a set of users when the data collection started and we also added users over that time.  Then for each quarter, we can find how many customers churn and get a standard deviation for the churn percentage.  Looking at the most recent quarters churn rate we can answer if our current churn rate is significantly above/below the mean.